---
description: >-
  The mtgbracket API is authenticated using Bearer tokens generated by OAuth 2.0
  workflows.
---

# Authentication

## How to Authenticate with our API

In most cases, you will be required to include a valid OAuth 2.0 Bearer token whenever you make a request to the _mtgbracket_ API.  These tokens are generated by your users, whenever they sign in to your application through the _mtgbracket_ OAuth 2.0 web client.

Authenticating an API will require you to include a HTTP Authentication header that includes a valid token.

```http
Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

Tokens generated by your application will have specific privileges defined when you register your application.  These include:

* User
* Deck
* Event
* Organization

Each of the above resources will allow for independent control of `READ` and/or `WRITE` access.

The _mtgbracket_ OAuth 2.0 workflow supports both [implicit](https://oauth.net/2/grant-types/implicit/) and [response code](https://oauth.net/2/grant-types/implicit/) grants.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The _implicit_ grant type is inherently less secure than the _response code_ grant, and **may be discontinued at some point in the future**.
{% endhint %}

## Generating Tokens

Tokens are generated differently depending on which workflow your application uses.  Regardless of which method you choose, the end result will be an API token that should be saved and linked to a user in your system, and submitted to us through the `Authorization` header whenever making a request to our API.

### The Implicit Grant Workflow

In the _implicit grant_ workflow, no other steps are needed to generate a token.  Upon redirection from the OAuth 2.0 screen, a valid token will be included in the URL fragment at the redirect destination.  This token can be used immediately.

### The Response Code Workflow

In the _response code_ workflow, your application must exchange a temporary token with your app's `client_secret` in order to generate an API token for your user.

Upon ...

